on descriptivism and domestication

	<p><span class="dropcap">L</span>inguistic concepts map nicely onto architecture, as illustrated by the early postmodernists. But semiotics is not the only example of this. In linguistics, people often discuss descriptivism vs. prescriptivism (these concepts aren't exclusive to linguistics, but they are very prominent in linguistic discussions). When a linguist tells someone that they're a linguist, a common reaction from the other person is "oh ok, I'd better watch my grammar around you then," assuming the linguist to be an enforcer of grammatical rules. This is a prescriptivist approach. The linguist then might respond, "no, you don't have to worry about your grammar around me; I'm not interested in correcting people's language; I'm interested in documenting how they use the language." This more descriptivist approach is one based on observation where the linguist studies the ways people use language. In the Panettone project, I discovered a similar approach.</p>

	<p>As a part of the project, I wanted to take Panettone from its habitat of being street furniture and turn it into home furniture. I wanted to domesticate Panettone. At first, I just started with trying to create one exactly as it is, concrete and all, but I very quickly ran into issues. It turns out, a concrete object of this size weighs over 400 pounds. I quickly tried to think of ways to fight this and make it a more practical piece of furniture. I tried designing it to be made of a lighter weight concrete and with a hollow center, but it would still be over 200 pounds. I realized that maybe this isn't something I should fight. Maybe Panettone should change based on the habitat. After all, the process of domestication is one of change and adaptation. This realization made me think of linguistic descriptivism. This is not a process to be controlled, rather one to observe. Therefore, Panettone must adapt to its environment.</p>

                <p>Let's observe Panettone's traits and the role they play in its original habitat. On the street, it' s made of concrete so it can stand up to the abuse that it often sees especially when in the path of cars. Additionally it often has street signs as appendages coming out of its top, a specialization in the world of street furniture. In a more domestic habitat, Panettone's construction would make more sense to be that of an ottoman (re: Giulio Iacchetti's "Bard") or a pillow or a piece of flat-pack plywood furniture similar to what one might see in the aisles of IKEA. The street sign appendages can adapt into coat racks or lamps. This process of domestication produces different breeds of Panettone.</p>